Counseling can be either oral or written.
Oral counseling takes place in a private conversation between a
Department Official, most likely a Supervisor,
and an Employee to encourage the Employee to improve his or her
conduct or deficiency in performance.
When does a routine oral counseling session turn into a
meeting where the Employee has the right to Union
Representation?
This can happen when more than one Department Official will be
involved in a counseling session.
Then the meeting becomes more formal in nature.
In this instance, the Employee must be notified in advance and
advised of his or her right to have Union representation.